# zotero-my-publications

This python script downloads bibliographic details from the Zotero 
"My Publications" collection, using the Zotero API, and outputs 
formatted HTML.

Unlike conventional Zotero bibliographies, the document generated by this
script will contain links to publicly-accessible attachment files hosted on the
zotero.org server. Documents to be included in the bibliography must be
published using the "My Publications" Zotero feature, which allows any user to
maintain a library of their own publications within Zotero and share the items
themselves (i.e., not just the bibliographic details). 

## Rationale

The "My Publications" collection provides public access to attachment files
through the user profile page on zotero.org and via the Zotero API. It cannot,
however, be used to generate a bibliography or report through the client in the
same way as regular collections. Unlike the "My Publications" bibliography on
the zotero.org profile page, which is loaded with javascript, this script
provides a static output that can be embedded in other applications and
formatted at will.

While linked file attachments stored on a public web server can alternatively be
used for the purpose of allowing public access to Zotero files, doing so
requires an additional system that must be maintained within the control of the
Zotero user. 

Unlike group libraries with shared file storage, the "My Publications"
collection is controlled by one user. It imposes no requirement to provide
read/write access to the group library, which can be dangerous, or to commit to
the burden of approving new group members.

## Installation and usage

Installation requires two python packages:

    $ pip install bs4 pyzotero

To run the script, copy to a suitable location and adjust the variables
in the configuration section at the top. Then simply run:

    $ python3 zotero-my-publications.py

## Copying

Copyright 2020, Eric Thrift

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Credits

This script was originally written for the 
[Dried Fish Matters](https://driedfishmatters.org) project, supported 
by the [Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of 
Canada](http://sshrc-crsh.gc.ca).
